OVERVIEW

cloggle provides a Clojure interface to OpenGL through JOGL. It is currently
very thin. Almost all opengl functions should be supported, but due to
implementation details, there are some which may not work yet (see bug #2). At
the moment only the GL interface is implemented; there is no support for
GLAutoDrawable or the like.

A GL object can be interfaced with using the ctx macro, which initialises a
context for all calls to opengl functions which occur within its body. This is a
dynamic context, so it will be in effect for functions called from within the
body of ctx. The current context object can be accessed through the variable
opengl-context.

Within a context, functions and fields defined by opengl are exposed in the
obvious manner: GL_FIELD, (glFunc arg1 arg2 ...). Functions operate only on the
current context object; there is no way to pass a different one. But you can
make a new call to ctx, or just use the java interop to the JOGL API directly.

cloggle also provides the beg-end macro, which wraps its body between calls to
glBegin and glEnd.

Illustrative example (not working code):
    (use 'net.philh.cloggle)
    (def gl-obj (get-gl-object-somehow))
    (ctx gl-obj
      (glMatrixMode GL_PROJECTION)
      (glOrtho 0 300 0 300 1 128)
      (glMatrixMode GL_MODELVIEW)
      (glTranslated 0 0 -10)

      (glClear GL_DEPTH_BUFFER_BIT)
      (glClear GL_COLOR_BUFFER_BIT)
      (beg-end GL_TRIANGLES
        (glVertex3d 30 0 0)
        (glVertex3d 0 30 0)
        (glVertex3d 0 0 0)))

BUGS

The only typecasting is that provided by the JVM (I think). So you can pass an
Integer to a function expecting a Float or a Double, and a Float to a function
expecting a Double, but not the other way around. You can't pass a Ratio to
anything.

When multiple methods sharing a name are provided by JOGL, only one of these can
be accessed from cloggle. This seems to be the case for functions which expect a
pointer in C: JOGL provides one version of the function which accepts an array,
and one which accepts a java.nio.*Buffer. It is not yet safe to use these
functions as exposed by cloggle; use (.glFunc opengl-context args...) for now.
For an example, see the usage of glLightfv and glMaterialfv in gears.clj. All
other exposed functions should be safe to use.

FUTURE PLANS

* Fix those bugs.
* Rename functions and fields: glMatrixMode -> matrix-mode, GL_DEPTH_BUFFER_BIT
  -> depth-buffer-bit.
* When the 'same' function goes by multiple names (eg. glVertex -> glVertex2f,
  glVertex2d, glVertex3f, etc.), make it available under a catch-all (eg.
  glVertex, or simply vertex if the rename has already happened).
* Add support for GLAutoDrawable, GLEventListener and friends.
